README.docker.md, before:

# MyInvois Gateway (Docker Image)

This Docker image runs the MyInvois Gateway.

## License

This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPLv3).
A copy of the license (`LICENSE.md`) is included alongside this file.
The full license text can also be found at: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html

## Source Code

The canonical source code for MyInvois Gateway is available at:
[myinvois-gateway](https://github.com/farhan-syah/myinvois-gateway)

## Basic Usage

To run this image (assuming `farhansyah/myinvois-gateway` is the image name, replace if using a locally built name):

```bash
docker run -d \
  -e CLIENT_ID="your_client_id_here" \
  -e CLIENT_SECRET="your_client_secret_here" \
  -e GATEWAY_API_KEY="your_gateway_api_key_here" \ # Optional
  -e REDIS_URL="redis://<your_redis_host>:<your_redis_port>" \ # Optional
  # -e SIGNING_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n# ... your PKCS#8 private key base64 content ...\n# -----END PRIVATE KEY-----" # Optional; Required for e-Invoice v1.1 signing \
  # -e SIGNING_CERTIFICATE_BASE64="your_certificate_raw_der_base64_content" # Optional; Required for e-Invoice v1.1 signing \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  --name myinvois_gateway \
  farhansyah/myinvois-gateway
```

Remember to replace placeholder values for `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET`.
The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Documentation

Once the application is running, API documentation (Swagger UI) can be accessed at:
`http://localhost:3000/docs/api`

For more detailed setup, development, and contribution information, please refer to the main `README.md` in the source code repository linked above.

Commit message:

``` feat: Add flexible document signing configuration
This commit implements a new document signing configuration
mechanism for e-Invoice v1.1, allowing for loading signing
credentials from:

- Explicit file paths (highest priority)
- Default file paths (conventional location)
- Direct environment variable content (fallback)

It updates `.env.example`, `README.md`, `README.docker.md`, and
`src/config/index.ts` and `src/utils/signature.ts` to reflect
these changes.  Also includes more robust error handling
and more informative console messages.
```

README.docker.md, after:

# MyInvois Gateway (Docker Image)

This Docker image runs the MyInvois Gateway.

## License

This software is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPLv3).
A copy of the license (`LICENSE.md`) is included alongside this file.
The full license text can also be found at: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html

## Source Code

The canonical source code for MyInvois Gateway is available at:
[myinvois-gateway](https://github.com/farhan-syah/myinvois-gateway)

## Basic Usage

To run this image (assuming `farhansyah/myinvois-gateway` is the image name, replace if using a locally built name):

```bash
docker run -d \
  -e CLIENT_ID="your_client_id_here" \
  -e CLIENT_SECRET="your_client_secret_here" \
  -e GATEWAY_API_KEY="your_gateway_api_key_here" \ # Optional
  -e REDIS_URL="redis://<your_redis_host>:<your_redis_port>" \ # Optional
  # For document signing (e-Invoice v1.1), provide credentials.
  # Option 1: Direct content (if not using file paths)
  # -e SIGNING_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n# ... your PKCS#8 private key content ...\n# -----END PRIVATE KEY-----" \
  # -e SIGNING_CERTIFICATE_BASE64="your_certificate_raw_der_base64_content" \
  #
  # Option 2: File paths (mount files into the container)
  # Example: Mount local './my-certs' directory to '/app/certs' in the container
  # -v ./my-certs:/app/certs:ro \
  # If files are named 'private_key.pem' and 'certificate_base64.txt' within the mounted '/app/certs',
  # the application will pick them up by default.
  #
  # Or, specify custom paths within the container:
  # -e SIGNING_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH="/etc/secrets/mykey.pem" \
  # -e SIGNING_CERTIFICATE_PATH="/etc/secrets/mycert.txt" \
  # -v /path/on/host/mykey.pem:/etc/secrets/mykey.pem:ro \
  # -v /path/on/host/mycert.txt:/etc/secrets/mycert.txt:ro \
  #
  # See the main README.md in the source repository for full configuration details and precedence.
  -p 3000:3000 \
  --name myinvois_gateway \
  farhansyah/myinvois-gateway
```

Remember to replace placeholder values for `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET`.
The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Documentation

Once the application is running, API documentation (Swagger UI) can be accessed at:
`http://localhost:3000/docs/api`

For more detailed setup, development, and contribution information, please refer to the main `README.md` in the source code repository linked above.
